All right, so
we're breaking up the problem.
So first let's start here, the CLI
options, let's solve this for TypeScript.
We're gonna always start in TypeScript,
even though some of these things are gonna
be a little different I think this
is probably going to be the most different
part of it and I may forget one option
which I really am hoping I do not forget
one option cuz that's always the worst.
But this is just using a library, right?
So we're just gonna have to do it.
The reason why I chose this library was
this is one of the first ones I found that
also had a pretty simple interface.
There wasn't a lot to it.
You could kind of just look at it and
go, okay,
I see effectively what you got to do.
And that's good enough for me.
All right, let's see.
So let's set up a project, this is
effectively how I might set up my project.
I think I'm gonna drop the word
projector from each one of them.
You can choose how to set it up.
The places where we did all those practice
problems is where I'm gonna be just doing
it all cuz I already have it set up.
I already have cargo knitted.
I already have Gogo knitted I already have
TypeScript installed with TS node and
Typescript and types node so
everything seems pretty good.
I also use Tmux by the way so I mean
if you're wondering how switching so
fast before it's Tmux just
in case you're wondering.
I also use Vim by the way it's pretty
fantastic, I don't know if that but
Vim's fantastic.
I also use Dvorak by the way.
I just by the way do three times in
the row by the way it's just because I
use a lot of super cool stuff.
I also use a Kinesis 360 Advantage
prototype, okay, right here proto type,
anywho so let's get started, so
we need to install all these things.
So I'm just gonna grab this because I
already have my directory sort of started
up, I don't need to do the old yarn knit.
I don't need to do the TLS node,
I don't need to do the git init.
But we do need to get
that Git ignore going.
So let's do that right now.
So I'm gonna jump back here and I'm
gonna go projects, TypeScript, awesome.
And let's just,
I'm gonna delete out all these things.
We just don't need those anymore.
I'm gonna add a gitignore, and
I'm gonna put in my node modules.
Just set up your project so
it's not totally screwed up right now.
And then of course we need to add in
that yarn command, you can copy and
paste it for yourself, but it's yard add.
Command line args and
of course types command line args.
I know there's dependency or
developer dependencies versus not,
we're just not gonna care for this, right?
You can set up your project nice and
pristine.
This is more about learning a language,
not crying and configuration.
All right there we go, awesome.
We have command line args,
we should be able to get started now.
So I'm gonna jump back to my favorite
editor, so let's just get started.
So we're gonna open up
our source directory and
we're gonna create the opts.ts, right?
So, the only responsibility of this
one is simply to get the command line
arguments and turn it into
an object that we can manipulate.
I like to do things kind
of in simple steps.
I don't know, easiest for me,
I'm too simple to be able to
understand a bunch of things I want.
So I just do it very, very simple.
So first,
let's think about our type, right?
Export type,
we'll just call this Opts, right?
Why not?
We can keep it simple.
And we need that nice little equal sign,
because it's how works.
And so if you think about it,
we can call projector with nothing.
Therefore we should
probably have a set of args
that are some sort of string array but
they may be nothing, right?
We may not provide anything, so
we do want to kind of constrain
ourself in a sort of way.
Next we're gonna want a present
working directory, right?
A present working directory of course
is either the directory you execute,
project or from or
a directory you give it, right?
So you can imagine we could have a command
line flag that is just pwd, so you can say
hey, go execute, go give me the variables
that are located in this other area.
That way you could imagine you
could use this in CI pretty easy.
You don't have to be in
the directory you want to execute,
you just simply need to point
it towards the directory.
And we'll do the same thing with config.
We can also imagine that there's a config,
that is your JSON config that
contains all your values.
So either we can point to some sort of
default location that everyone's used to
using or we can point to a specific
one that says our unusual one.
So for purposes of just testing ourselves,
we're gonna do this but
you can also imagine that there's
some sort of CLI out there or
CI operation out there that
wanna do it in a specific way,
this would give them the opportunity
to just point somewhere else.
Awesome.
So let's export a nice default
function and just do getOps and
of course this thing is
gonna retun an ops, right?
Feels good, everyone's on board,
all right so
we need to use that whole
command line arguments.
So I'm gonna import import CLI
from command line args, awesome.
There we go, we have it, we can just jump
into the code itself and just look at it.
You can see right away that it takes.
It's just a function that takes in
some sort of options definitions.
That thing includes the long option name,
right?
I also by the way, I really do like
looking through the source code.
I feel like that's often the best
documentation out there is what the code
actually says it's going to do.
So name is obviously required, right?
It's not so much of an option definition.
It's a required definition.
We can have type if it's a string,
what is it gonna be?
Alias?
So this would be like the single character
if we wanted to add in a say a dash P
option for the present working directory,
multiple, lazy multiple, default option.
So default option is any
values unaccounted for
by the option definition
will be set on this one.
So we probably need that one as well,
right?
Cuz we have projector add foo bar,
right, so
all of those needs to be put
into a specific location.
This sounds like our goal here.
So I feel pretty confident at this point.
So let's go here and go return CLI, and
I believe it said it takes an array
of these kind of configs here.
So let's just build them one at a time.
First thing is name, right?
You can see right here,
let's call the first one.
Let's start with args, right?
Cuz that's the one you know,
that's our first one.
All right, args, awesome.
This is gonna be that default value.
Right, true all right, that's the one we
want to make sure that everything just
falls into and
then of course was there anything else?
Yeah, type we probably want the type.
The type should be something
along the lines of a string array
is that what I wanted?
Or it's a string.
We got multiple, true, right?
We can try out these different
ones to see how each one does,
we can go look up on the documentation
to see how they do that but
each one seems to have its own options.
I believe this is about
the right set of values,
we may need to include a type string,
I'm not 100% sure quite yet.
And so let's just return it as Opts,
there we go cuz it doesn't quite define
what the object is coming out of it.
So of course I'm gonna cheat and
type land and just say, trust me,
I'm telling you the truth.
I'm never lying to you.
Come on, I'd never lie to you.
And so let's create another one
of these and let's click this.
Name should be config, all right?
This is definitely the config you
want to use for your projector and
we're definitely going to want an alias.
C, right?
That makes sense.
We're gonna want to be able to just say
dash C as opposed to dash, dash config.
On top of that we're probably gonna
want the type to be a string, right?
I believe I should be doing this as well,
we'll find out.
And then let's do one more,
let's do present working directory.
So in case you want to be able to
use values from somewhere else on
your operating system and
we can use a p right here.
So if I've done everything correct,
this should effectively be
everything we need for this program.
And so let's create a index, index.ts,
everyone's favorite file and
we should be able to import
that little option creator and
it should just create the options for
us, right?
So import getOpts from, what is it?
GetOpts or opts, there we go.
Awesome.
And now I should be able
to go console.loggetOpts.
So long as I've done everything
correctly in npx ts-node index,
it should just simply print out.
Okay, there's nothing there but
I did get this args: true so
I probably missed up default
value versus default option.
So let's just go back in there,
make sure I didn't do that.
The initial value,
whoopsie daisies, right?
I did the wrong thing,
it should have been default option.
There you go, awesome.
Re-executed again and its like,
hey there's nothing, you're good to go.
I can never remember with npx do,
you have to do the double dashes,
we can find out foo bar.
Okay, that's not quite it.
So you might not need to do
the double dashes, foo bar.
Okay.
So it's saying unknown value.
What are we getting here?
All right, so it looks like we got
ourselves a small little bit of an error,
which is a little bit funny, cuz I
figured that was the right way to do it.
It might be multiple.
Is the thing we're missing,
hey can you have multiple items?
That's probably the thing we're missing,
doing these things from heart,
you always forget a couple
of the options there we go.
Foo bar, we got the options out,
fantastic.
And so if I have nothing, what do we get?
We get nothing, so that's exactly
kind of how we specified it.
Can I do-- config?
And then this would be a path, right?
Awesome.
So we see that config is correct.
We see that the args are correct.
And I bet you present working
directory is the exact same thing.
Perfect.
Okay, so
I'd say that we've effectively
finished this little object.
They're mostly undefined or notables.
But some of them of course are,
they require this.
So here we go.
I'll leave this up for a quick second.
If you wish to follow along,
I believe if I am not mistaken,
I also have the code on the website.
So if you just feel like cutting and
pasting this,
it's just a bunch of configuration.
Are you getting a much out of it?
That's up to you.
Here we go.
I'm gonna jump over for a second.
There we go.
Arguments type string default option.
True, multiple, true.
See, I eventually was gonna get it.
And I also called the projector options.
Like look at how ambitious
I was at one point, man.
How far do you fall when you
start calling something ops?
Just nothing right there.